*This is not only my work, these files are a collaboration of my team and our challenge advisors*
*The data we used is a product of Fannie Mae and can be found on their website at: https://capitalmarkets.fanniemae.com/credit-risk-transfer/single-family-credit-risk-transfer/fannie-mae-single-family-loan-performance-data*

At Break Through Tech AI @ MIT my AI student project was to create a Machine Learning Model to predict prepayment probability concerning mortgages. We took the Fannie Mae dataset and looked specifically at the timeframe 2018-2022. These were mortgages that were created in 2018 and kept track of them with data on their status being created every month through December of 2022.

The goal of this project was to predict potential borrower prepay events to maximize borrower assistance options and access pool level behavior. We look at borrower prepayment because when a borrower prepays, the loan is terminated.

For our data preprocessing, we had to organize the data, as it is in the form of a time series. Each month was stored in a separate .xlsx file. All these files were put in order and combined into one dataframe and the reporting period was converted into dates. We then one hot encoded categorical values as well as creating a prepay column that would be set to yes for a zero balance code of 1, which would refer to whether a borrower had prepaid.

After processing our data and creating our testing/training splits, we created a decision tree. Looking at our decision tree, it was too complex, which was ok for predicting individual loans, but not predicting pool level behavior. To measure pool level behavior we created our own custom metric, that would calculate the the mean error of the model, taking mean value of our predicted y and subtracting it from the mean value of the actual y. This custom metric was a better predictor of the models behavior than an accuracy score. Using this we could see we needed to increase the bias of the model, to allow for better generalization. 
